.. _add_analyzer_top:

=====================
Adding a New Analyzer
=====================

DroneKit-LA has been designed from the ground-up to provide an extensible framework for supporting different 
log input and output formats, and for creating tests (analyzers) which are independent of those formats and 
of each other.

This article provides a brief overview of the main framework classes and some suggestions on the 
how to write a new analyzer. There is additional information in the :doc:`../reference/analyser_reference`.

.. tip::

    We highly recommend that you check out the 
    `existing analyzers <https://github.com/dronekit/dronekit-la/tree/master/analyzer>`_ 
    for ideas/examples.
    

Framework overview
==================

The main framework classes are the analyzer base class 
(:cpp:class:`Analyzer`), the results base classes
(:cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result`, :cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result_Period`, :cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result_Event`,
:cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result_Summary`) and the vehicle/log class which is used to expose log information 
to the analyzer (:cpp:class:`AnalyzerVehicle::Base`).

.. todo:: Generate a UML diagram and add here.


Analyzers must be derived from :cpp:class:`Analyzer` and override its virtual methods. 
The first two methods set the name and description reported by the analyzer in the output log:

.. code-block:: cpp

    /* Analyzer name. This string is displayed in the test output's
    ``name`` field for the test. */ 
    virtual const std::string name() const = 0;
    
    /* Analyzer description. This string is displayed in the test 
    output's ``description`` field. */ 
    virtual const std::string description() const = 0;

    
The :cpp:func:`Analyzer::evaluate()` and :cpp:func:`Analyzer::end_of_log()` methods are called 
by the framework for every logged message, to gather relevant information and report the results 
(respectively). Some analyzers may choose to report the results only at the end of the
available log data.
    
.. code-block:: cpp

    /* Evaluate message. This method is called by the analyzer framework for every message in the log. 
    Implementations should evaluate available data and store anything needed for generating a result. */ 
    virtual void evaluate() { }
        
    /* Generate results. This method is called by the analyzer framework for every message in the log. 
    Implementations should store results based on the evaluation information generated by the `evaluate()` method */ 
    virtual void end_of_log(uint32_t packet_count UNUSED) { }


The :cpp:func:`evaluate() <Analyzer::evaluate()>` method gets data about the vehicle (log) to analyze 
using the base-classes protected :cpp:member:`_vehicle <Analyzer::_vehicle>` member 
(an :cpp:class:`AnalyzerVehicle::Base`, cast to the the actual vehicle type). 
The key information from the evaluation is typically saved as part of the new analyzer's private data.

The new analyzer should also define a results class (an instance of which is usually owned by your Analyzer-derived class).
The results class must be derived from one of the base classes listed below:

* :cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result` - Base class for analyzer results.
* :cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result_Period` - Base class for an Analyzer Result which does not span any time.
* :cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result_Event` - Base class for an Analyzer Result which spans a period.
* :cpp:class:`Analyzer_Result_Summary`-  Base class for an Analyzer Result which provides information derived over the entire period of data input.

.. todo:: Brief explanation of where each of the above are used.

In your :cpp:func:`end_of_log() <Analyzer::end_of_log()>` implementation you can populate this results object 
using the :cpp:func:`Analyzer_Result::set_status()`, :cpp:func:`set_reason() <Analyzer_Result::set_reason()>`,
:cpp:func:`add_evidence() <Analyzer_Result::add_evidence()>`, :cpp:func:`add_source() <Analyzer_Result::add_source()>` and 
:cpp:func:`set_severity_score() <Analyzer_Result::set_severity_score()>` or 
:cpp:func:`increase_severity_score() <Analyzer_Result::increase_severity_score()>` (severity-score) methods 
and then save it to the analyzer using :cpp:func:`Analyzer::add_result()`. 
An example from the *Arming Check* analyzer is shown below: 

.. code-block:: cpp

    result->set_status(analyzer_status_fail);
    result->set_reason("Some of the arming checks were disabled when the craft was  armed");
    result->add_evidence(string_format("Arming flags: %u", result->arming_check()));
    result->add_source(_data_sources.get("PARAM"));
    result->add_source(_data_sources.get("ARMING"));
    ...
    //Add the result to the Analyzer
    add_result(result);
            
If the analyzer detects multiple issues it can repopulate its ``result`` object and call :cpp:func:`add_result() <Analyzer::add_result()>` for each issue.

:cpp:class:`Analyzer` provides a number of other methods that you can optionally use/over ride in your classes. 
One example is :cpp:func:`configure() <Analyzer::configure()>`, which can be overridden to support 
setting failure levels using a configuration file.
    
.. todo::

    - show how to use configure - in a separate section.
    - What are data sources? How do we know what values to put in. How are they used?
    - Where does the string for results summary come from (in brief output)
    - What are the different results types for. ie when would you derive from (and what in overview does it supply) 

      - Analyzer_Result 
      - Analyzer_Result_Period 
      - Analyzer_Result_Event
      - Analyzer_Result_Summary 
        
    - What is the story with "to_json"
    
    
Creating an Analyzer
====================

The easiest way to start creating a new analyzer is to duplicate an
`existing analyzer <https://github.com/dronekit/dronekit-la/tree/master/analyzer>`_ and modify 
the virtual methods described in the previous section.

.. tip::

    A good one to copy might be the Battery Analyzer 
    (`header <https://github.com/dronekit/dronekit-la/blob/master/analyzer/analyzer_battery.h>`_, 
    `source <https://github.com/dronekit/dronekit-la/blob/master/analyzer/analyzer_battery.cpp>`_) 
    because it is relatively small and straightforward.

All of the existing analyzers have been implemented in just two files (the header and source).
They are placed in the **/analyzer/** folder and prefixed with the string **analyzer_**.

You'll need to add the source files into the project 
`Makefile <https://github.com/dronekit/dronekit-la/blob/master/Makefile>`_:

.. code-block:: make

    SRCS_CPP += analyzer/analyzer_your_problem.cpp

You'll also need to setup the code to instantiate the new analyzer in 
`analyze.cpp <https://github.com/dronekit/dronekit-la/blob/master/analyze.cpp>`_. 
This code usually also sets up any trigger values from the configuration file, as shown:


.. code-block:: make

    #include "analyzer/analyzer_your_problem.h"
    
    ...

    Analyzer_Your_Problem* analyzer_your_problem = new Analyzer_Your_Problem(vehicle,_data_sources);
    if (analyzer_your_problem != NULL) {
        configure_analyzer(config, analyzer_your_problem);
    } else {
        syslog(LOG_INFO, "Failed to create analyzer_your_problem");
    }


    
.. tip::

    Not all information your analyzer might need will necessary be available
    in the :cpp:class:`AnalyzerVehicle::Base` class (accessed through analyzer's :cpp:member:`_vehicle <Analyzer::_vehicle>` member). If required
    information is present in the original log but not the analyzer's vehicle model then you can add it using
    the process described in :doc:`add_message_handler`.